# SO

## Overview

**SO: Security Ontology**

Linkoping University, Sweden - Security and Networks Group
https://www.ida.liu.se/divisions/adit/security/

web page for the SO ontology:
* https://www.ida.liu.se/divisions/adit/security/projects/secont/

**SO** is a collection of 4 ontologies:
* 1 main security ontology
* 3 independent extension ontologies, each of which imports and extends the main ontology for a particular, more specialised subdomain
* the ontology file `SecurityLiterature.owl` is imported by the main security ontology, but it is not regarded as an ontology of interest when considered in isolation

**Security Ontology**
* The main security ontology.
* It contains assets, threats, vulnerabilities, countermeasures as well as security goals like confidentiality, integrity etc. and defense strategies such as detection, prevention etc.
* `Security.owl`

**Security Views Ontology**
* This ontology imports the main security ontology and defines classes that sort countermeasures and threats according to assets, security goals and defense strategies.
* `SecurityViews.owl`
* This ontology appears to make **SO** a larger, richer security ontology without taking it towards a more specialised subdomain like cyber-security, as the other two extension ontologies appear to do

**Source Code Analysis Ontology**
* This ontology imports the main security ontology and extends the countermeasure class `source code analysis` with tools that are used for C source code analysis.
* `SourceCodeAnalysis.owl`
* This ontology appears to take **SO** closer to the **cyber-security** domain

**Memory Protection Ontology**
* This ontology imports the main security ontology and extends the countermeasure class memory protection with a number of memory protection tools and techniques.
* `MemoryProtection.owl`
* This ontology appears to take **SO** closer to the **cyber-security** domain

## Minor issue regarding imports

The main `Security.owl` ontology imports `SecurityLiterature.owl`, but the URL for that ontology is broken and generates an HTTP 404 response. Oddly, the **SO** website, given above, does not provide access to it.

It turns out, however, that the `SecurityLiterature.owl` file is available at this updated URL (per the current website):
https://www.ida.liu.se/divisions/adit/security/projects/secont/SecurityLiterature.owl

We have downloaded the `SecurityLiterature.owl` ontology so that we have a local copy. By importing `Security.owl` into Protege, Protege creates a `catalog-v001.xml` file which redirects the broken URL to the local file.  So Protege can import `Security.owl` without getting an imports failure. But other tools or matching systems may struggle.

We have included the `catalog-v001.xml` generated by Protege for managing around the broken URL issue in case others find it useful.

Ultimately, to keep things simple for OAEI researchers, we may find it desirable to create **merged versions** of each of 4 **SO** ontologies.
* `merged-Security.owl`
* `merged-SecurityViews.owl`
* etc.
