# Defence and Security Ontologies

This repository contains a collection of OWL ontologies relating to the domains of defence and security. 

## Overview

The ontologies in this collection were identified and obtained during an **ontology search** exercise undertaken during Nov/Dec of 2025.  The search exercise was largely literature-driven. Most of the ontologies are accompanied by one or more **academic papers** that can be cited in relation to the ontology.  Each ontology is accompanied by some amount of documentation providing information such as: a short description, relevant context, and the source from which a physical copy of the ontology was ultimately obtained.

Some ontologies are distributed as networks of component ontologies, woven together with `owl:imports` statements. For many of these, we have created **merged** versions of the ontology, using the Protege ontology editor, sometimes together with ontology catalog (`catalog-v001.xml`) files to redirect URLs to local files to overcome accessibility issues.  If a merge was performed, details of the merge strategy employed are recorded in the documentation accompanying the ontology.

The motivation for establishing this collection of ontologies has to do with the research problem of OWL **ontology alignment**.  Using this collection, the ambition is to create a **defence & security track** for the [Ontology Alignment Evaluation Initiative (OAEI)](https://oaei.ontologymatching.org/).  OAEI tracks contain one or more **ontology alignment tasks**. An OAEI ontology alignment task involves a pair of ontologies whose domains overlap (or abut) in such a way that they pose interesting alignment opportunities and challenges. The pair of ontologies is accompanied by a **reference alignment** (a ground-truth alignment).  The **reference alignment** permits the quality (accuracy, recall, precision, etc.) of alignments generated by **matching systems** (ontology alignment software systems) to be evaluated. 

## Subdomains (categories, clusters)

Most of the ontologies in this collection cluster into categories (or subdomains) of the umbrella domains of defence and security. The structure of this repository reflects this clustering. Sometimes, an ontology fits into more than one cluster (subdomain).  Each ontology appears only once in the repository, however --- in the cluster where the fit is deemed strongest.

## Relaxed domain definitions

The domains of defence and security have been **interpreted broadly**. The connection between some of the subdomain clusters and the umbrella domains of defence and security may appear tenuous. Arguments and/or explanations that help justify the inclusion of such subdomains in this collection are provided, in various places, within this repository.

## Next steps

Anticipated next steps towards the goal of creating a **defence & security** OAEI track:
* analyse and evaluate the ontologies in this collection
* conduct exploratory alignments
* identify candidate pairs of ontologies for alignment tasks
* select a short-list of ontology pairs
* select a final (small) set of alignment tasks (ontology pairs)
* establish **reference alignments** for the final set of alignment tasks
* formally establish the defence & security OAEI track


